---
title: "ffmpeg 명령어 모음"
excerpt: "ffmpeg의 간단한 명령어에 대해 알아보자"
last_modified_at: 2019-11-03T19:00:00
---

## Stream specifiers

Some options are applied per-stream, e.g. bitrate or codec. Stream specifiers are used to precisely specify which stream(s) a given option belongs to.

A stream specifier is a string generally appended to the option name and separated from it by a colon. E.g. `-codec:a:1 ac3` contains the `a:1` stream specifier, which matches the second audio stream. Therefore, it would select the ac3 codec for the second audio stream.

A stream specifier can match several streams, so that the option is applied to all of them. E.g. the stream specifier in `-b:a 128k` matches all audio streams.

An empty stream specifier matches all streams. For example, `-codec copy` or `-codec: copy` would copy all the streams without reencoding.

## Main options

- -y (global)

  Overwrite output files without asking.

- -i _url_ (input)

  input file url

- -c[:stream_specifier] _codec_ (input/output,per-stream)
- -codec[:stream_specifier] _codec_ (input/output,per-stream)

  Select an encoder (when used before an output file) or a decoder (when used before an input file) for one or more streams. _codec_ is the name of a decoder/encoder or a special value `copy` (output only) to indicate that the stream is not to be re-encoded.

  For exmaple

  ```
    ffmpeg -i INPUT -map 0 -c:v libx264 -c:a copy OUTPUT
  ```

  encodes all video streams with libx264 and copies all audio streams.

  For each stream, the last matching `c` option is applied, so

  ```
    ffmpeg -i INPUT -map 0 -c copy -c:v:1 libx264 -c:a:137 libvorbis OUTPUT
  ```

  will copy all the streams except the second video, which will be encoded with libx264, and the 138th audio, which will be encoded with libvorbis.

- -ac[:stream_specifier] _channels_ (input/output,per-stream)
  Set the number of audio channels. For output streams it is set by default to the number of input audio channels. For input streams this option only makes sense for audio grabbing devices and raw demuxers and is mapped to the corresponding demuxer options.

- -ab

  Set bitrate of audio.

- -ar[:stream_specifier] _freq_ (input/output,per-stream)

  Set the audio sampling frequency. For output streams it is set by default to the frequency of the corresponding input stream. For input streams this option only makes sense for audio grabbing devices and raw demuxers and is mapped to the corresponding demuxer options.

- -vf _filtergraph_ (output)

  Create the filtergraph specified by filtergraph and use it to filter the stream.

  This is an alias for `-filter:v`, see the [-filter option](https://www.ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg.html#filter_005foption)
